hello everybody and welcome to Facebook
live Q&A I'm your host on value and I'm
here with the boys hello everyone how
you doing good
you're ready for good I'm really excited
this is a good Friday to eyes yeah why
feeling good I'm also saying that
because we have our captivate workshop
and I'm super pumped about it so much
yeah you're welcome it's going to be
like a great exploration into the mind
like all of our teammates and I am very
yeah by the way if the speed is adding
value please do share yeah yeah thank
you
all right so I'll kick it off with some
that came in through the Kinect inbox so
this one comes from Daniel Brees the
nerd writer said he recommends writing
to become more self-aware I've been
using the 5 minute journal for the last
few months but what other habits can I
use to get into writing things down with
the goal of becoming more self-aware how
would you recommend I start small and
what could I work up to um well I'm
intrigued why he wants more habits
around writing if you're I would say if
the 5 minute journal isn't doing it then
just make it longer I don't necessarily
think that you need more habits of
writing you need to figure out why
you're not getting the most out of the
habit that you already have so I'm
guessing that he's doing the 5 min the
journal maybe is not getting in the
rhythm enough to really be able to get
to the deep stuff because I know when I
first start writing if I'm which I don't
journal very often in fairness largely
because I have a slightly different
strategy so I'm still trying to get to
that same end of like really clearing my
mind and figuring out like at what I
should be focusing on what is that quiet
whispery voice inside intuition like
what's it saying I use meditation for
that but I have done journaling before
and I do find it pretty useful but I
find that the first probably 5 or 10
minutes is really just a warm-up and
you're getting yourself in the process
of thinking of thought and writing
something down and then there is
something sort of vaguely meditative
about the act of writing like for
instance I would never try to do that
with
uh voice memos I find that that like
just the really the way you have to talk
to get the voice memo to work properly
doesn't work quite right and I guess I'm
actually thinking speak to type versus a
true voice memo which I would never want
to go back and listen to and write down
anyway so I would never use that
strategy so I would say try just doing
it longer so that you get past that sort
of warm-up phase and get into something
where you're really getting into the
depths of your not really getting into
the depths of the subconscious but
you're giving your subconscious time to
like really push the things up into your
conscious mind and that's one of the
reasons that I like actually writing
because the amount of time that it takes
me to think to type leaves enough time
for my mind to also continue processing
so I'm always like a little bit ahead of
what I'm writing which you read back
something that I write that I haven't
proofread you'll notice that I miss
words every now and then because my mind
is like already yes that so part of me
thinks I've already written it because
I'm on to the next bit and I find that
that slight gap between I can think
faster than I can type gives me room to
come up with that next idea but my body
is sort of taking care of the work
another strategy this isn't the same but
just as I'm talking through other things
that put me in that same state so
obviously straight meditation and then
driving so and but driving in a straight
line so what I used to do was this is
BAM hide a no I would sort of I guess I
would go to the one the California one
which is the coastal highway so it's
literally a straight shot until you
decide to turn around it will take you
all the way to San Francisco yeah so
there are no turns nothing and I would
just drive until I felt like if I don't
turn around now yeah I'm gonna be gone
for a very long time and this is back in
my night owl days so there was no
traffic and I would just drive and I
would leave some leave at like 11
o'clock at night and so then I would
just drive drive drive
and there was something so hypnotic
about that just sort of straight shot
the one side of the universe is
pitch-black in the ocean at night so
there's nothing
and then the right side for most of the
drivers is sort of a cliff face so it
was kind of like existing in this tunnel
I don't know how to explain it was
really really interesting and I would
just get in this zone and the only catch
was I was always afraid that I was going
to forget something so because you're
having like these really interesting
ideas but it's dangerous to you know in
any way shape or form try to mark that
down so if you can get over that and
sometimes I would just pull over and
take notes and then start driving again
so it's not ideal so I haven't done that
in a very long time
but it's something that if people don't
have a rhythm like you know Danielle if
you're looking for something that's
maybe more effective than writing for
you I will try something like that yeah
I mean for me in terms of writing and
stuff like that journaling I find that
it is mostly helpful for me when it's
like an intense emotion that I need to
like unpack so like the majority of the
writing and journaling I used to do is
whenever I like have some type of anger
or like sadness or confusion or what is
the top end so it's almost like my way
of processing out like exactly what it
is I'm feeling like trying to direct it
and figure out where it is and then just
like that release so it could just be
that it is more time that you need so
five minutes was never really enough
because the first five minutes is you
kind of just like ah like I don't know
like didn't around like I'm really
confused and then it starts kind of
getting into that place where like okay
so like when this happened this is how I
felt or like you just let your thoughts
wander so it's like that stream of
consciousness writing so I always found
that that probably would air more so on
the side of like 15 to like 20 minutes
so maybe you just need to increase your
habit of writing or find a different way
to kind of find that self exploration
bro yes and so our next question comes
in from Ono Nikolai
Northy he says how would you suggest
regular Joe's go about getting
high-profile endorsements for a book for
example how could I get you to endorse
mine I've heard of typing out
endorsement and sending it to the person
fine but I assume you get a jillion of
these requests a day is there anything
other than perseverance and or camping
out on your front lawn and getting your
five best friends to tell you not to
call security
man so here's my real answer to that
question so when somebody sends me
something asking me for an endorsement I
am never going to give them an
endorsement
unless I've read the book like that
would be so gross to me so if you see my
name on something it is not because
someone sent me the thing that they want
me to sign off on it's because I
actually read the book and so I've had
this in the past and because I don't
know them I don't know if the book is
going to be any good and I'm so freakish
about what I give my time to I'm like
Cott so I don't read the book because I
don't know them I don't know if their
ideas are going to be worth the time so
it's this catch-22 of like the only time
I've ever read a book sort of on spec
was in Ryan holiday asked me for
feedback on egos the enemy and that was
like dude Ryan is the man so that was a
no-brainer exactly yeah so if somebody
sending me something cold man that
that's not my world so that doesn't feed
into like my goals to read a bunch of
manuscripts and stuff like that so the
answer is you need to find somebody for
whatever reason like reading cold
manuscripts is what they do otherwise
you need to deliver just an absurd
amount of value to them first and
foremost and honestly like my real thing
is like deliver a crushing amount of
value to a community of people that will
clamor so loudly like you can imagine if
150 people wrote to me on the same day
that have brought value to this
community and said look you need to read
this guy's book that's going to give me
pause like I'm at least going to give it
a chapter you know and then if it
captures me I'll go on so it's it's not
about going out and just trying to get
somebody to do something cold it's about
building it brick by brick and getting
people like to take it seriously because
you're delivering a tsunami of value so
thinking back to when we first started
in sidequests and no one knew who I was
litter
the outside of the health and fitness
world nobody knew who I was and even the
vast majority of the people in the
fitness world they didn't know me they
just knew quest so our whole thing was
you start with the people that you can
get and you do something where they walk
away going whoa that was spectacular and
then that word of mouth travels and you
just start small and you build and you
build and you build so probably like
this is exactly what I would do because
he the the endorsement for me is
meaningless what you actually want is
people to buy your book can we agree
hungry so I would sort of blog like look
at what Eric Barker did his blog is it's
in Japanese the name so I would just say
look up Eric Barker and barking up the
wrong tree you'll get to his blog and he
did that I think for seven or eight
years before he wrote his book yeah same
here so we've now been between inside
quests and impact Theory we've been at
this for over 2 and a half years by the
time the book comes out it'd be like
three and a half years by then we'll
have I hope well over a million people
in our ecosystem so it's like doing all
of that before you release your book
that's the right answer because first of
all your your ideas need to be serving
people in my opinion before you put them
into book form and the book should be
the way that you get it out to just a
much broader audience but you want a lot
of people that are vouching for your
ideas before you go to the book so then
it would be much easier to get the
attention of somebody because if I went
to somebody and said look I have an
ecosystem of a million people I've had
all these people on the podcast this is
and we record people at the end of the
podcast saying what their experience was
like and send them like a little thing
here are the people that have come on
the stage shared ideas with me here are
the people that are resonating with what
we've been doing and now by the way I
would like you to take a look at this
we're going to be taking a lot more
seriously so it's about really
delivering value with your stuff not
trying to rush to a book like go out
there brick by brick do the hand and
combat build a following agree and I
mean alternatively if you just want to
write a book for the sake of writing a
book if that's something that drives you
then do that just know that you know
building that following is probably the
best way
to actually monetize it and build it
into something huge yeah I'm going to
say don't write that book it's
interesting I'm going to say don't write
that book I guess based on the
assumptions I'm making about writing a
book to me is really about feeding a
channel and right putting a billboard in
the desert is the wrong idea and the
amount of energy it would take to write
a book is so right massive yeah write a
book if what you want to do is teach
writing a book but if you actually want
to move units I think that too in
today's day and age to write a book
getting it sold moving units is brutally
difficult and you have people like I
remember talking to Ryan holiday when
his book was about to come out he said
every author goes through this you write
this thing you spend all this time
writing it and then you're like is
anyone gonna buy this like is anyone
going to care and that obstacle is so
big I think it's way way better now look
there was a time when you're only watch
that was the only option yeah but this
is where and it's it's interesting that
perhaps you and I disagree on this but
my thing is really looking at how are
you going to be delivering that
long-tail value spend the time
sharpening your ideas long before you do
something that's just sort of internally
gratifying like what's your goal and
then work backwards and I can think of
precious few sort of end goals where it
would make sense to lead with the book
could be wrong
that's my gonna know but I feel like
I've I just say this because I've
encountered some people I guess working
well I made an English and creative
writing so there were those writers who
are like I just write for the sake of my
art well that's fascinating so I am
definitely talking nonfiction right so
fiction you're right exactly so they're
writing for the sake of their art and so
they don't really necessarily care
whether or not like a bunch of people
buy it so I'm like you know there are
two ends of you know the spectrum
essentially where it's like if I were to
write a book I would sure as hell want
people to read it
no you're right if it's fiction there's
I mean you can write short stories I
guess but there is a substitute to just
writing exactly nice take true there we
go
all right so these this next one comes
from Angela Serena in the comment we are
starting a line of alternates
alternative to junk sexy health food
products like keto sugar-free super
delicious chocolate combined with
personal branding what would you what
would be your advice to approach the
design and bringing it to market with a
new product for first time for the
design of packaging yeah first essential
action step the first essential action
steps to designing the packaging I want
to be sure that we're really clear well
your advice on approaching the design
and bringing it to market okay so
obviously first and foremost make sure
your product is real that it's
metabolically advantageous after that
you want to identify who is my target
market Who am I trying to sell this to
and then you need to make sure that your
design is representative not only of the
ethos of your company should hopefully
give people the feeling that you want
them to feel but also in a way that
they're going to be receptive of so I'll
give you an example if your target
market is Millennials and your product
like it one of its core features is that
it's natural and organic you're going to
be in earth tones hopefully your
packaging is going to be from like
recycled material that it's going to
have that vibe that it looks like it's
from recycled material and so that will
give all these subconscious cues that it
is what they're looking for it got to
the point where so many people are using
a leaf to denote natural that if I'm not
mistaken like you can't put a leaf on
packaging anymore unless it actually is
natural so it's like there are a lot of
subconscious cues that you can tap into
so really identifying who your market is
and what the subconscious cues are that
already exist and then and this is
really important how do you
differentiate yourself how do you stand
out and then here's something people
really don't think about decide whether
you're going online
or whether you're ultimately going to
end up in stores because the design for
packaging that works online is so
different than the packaging that works
in the source that's on when you're at
the store you're standing back right
you're let's say six issue from the the
display there may be hundreds of other
products like yours there and you will
get lost unless your name is really big
and you have some sort of consistent
color scheme doesn't have to be the same
color but it needs to be a consistent
color scheme so if you're like bloc
colors primary colors if you're stripes
like whatever that's going to look like
it's something that you can see at a
distance now online you don't
necessarily have to do that you don't
have to think of your products so much
as like a unit a family of products that
need to look good together because
people are looking at them one at a time
but I will say the consistency across
your brand is incredibly important so it
can't feel schizophrenic so you do have
to think a bit more as a family of
products but working backwards from your
audience who are you trying to sell to
what are the subconscious cues that
they're familiar with how many of those
can you leverage that really is the most
important thing and then don't be afraid
to be wrong so test it try it out show
it to people get feedback and then
adjust accordingly makes sense all right
so this next question comes from Lauren
from the connecting box I've heard you
talk about using bright lines in your
life what are your bright lines that you
live by daily how do you incorporate
those bright lines into your life did
you just decide one day and just do it
and just did it not didn't no matter
what or was there some trial and error
first of all I read it and unfortunately
can't remember where I read and I think
someone even put in the comments once I
don't remember where I read this so but
it's definitely somebody else's concept
I took that the words so as one of those
as soon as I read it I thought this
makes a lot of sense to me
because I am really good at all or
nothing and I'm really bad at a little
bit so when they say what was it lays
you can't just eat one or ruffles you
can't be one I was like that same to me
I develop my dream : it's a Pringle I
think so once you pop your handset
is that as well totally agree so I fall
prey to that in a big way like not doing
something I'm fine with doing it a
little bit is very hard so reading it I
was like okay this makes a lot of sense
to me so I can be super binary about it
and because I part of my identity is
being disciplined it was very easy for
me to say okay I'm I'm the type of
person that when I say these are the
only calories I'm going to eat these are
the only calories I'm going to eat now
bright lines serve me the most in really
two things the way that I use my time
and energy for the business and food
those are two things where it's just
like the crushing sense of identity that
I bring to those two things even when
I'm like starving I don't allow myself
additional calories and it's all because
of that bright line thing and practice
is important but I will say that this
one more than it's practice is derived
from identity and because I identity is
effective because it follows you even
when no one is looking and that's what
really makes identity powerful because
if it were I can't have additional
calories when other people are around
that's how people get into trouble where
they're eating at night and they're like
sneaking food well if I eat in my car
and not at home it's okay it's really
fascinating the way that people like
create these very bizarre rules for
themselves like second life yes one
thing that I find fascinating is like
when people decide to cheat and it's
well I wasn't in my home state or I was
you know traveling on business or like
we're not in the same area right it's
like wow so that's where things like
that bright lines are very offended
right so it's just hard and fast
I don't do XY and Z and yeah those I
think are incredibly incredibly
important and it's almost doesn't kind
of fall in line with that like cookie
jar concept where like every time you
accomplish it you kind of get to like
put a little cookie in the jar and say
good job most definitely yeah so maybe
kind of if you think of it that way too
along with just part of your identity
and then also rewards is also following
through with it then you'll be able to
actually turn it into a habit no portion
yeah all right so this next Oh so we've
got a couple shout outs that come in so
we've got the net Nicolas doors uh from
Greece doesn't uh yeah we'll see say hey
there's a great little bit agree boy all
right so then Kayla Griffiths from
Canada and Brad span from Texas tuning
in live there we go what's up everybody
alright so this next question is from
Naomi Hernandez hi Tom and Cindy thanks
so much for all you do and for sharing
genuinely thank you for listening Jeff
so Tom what is your strategy for news
intake how much time do you dedicate to
it and what time wait what type of news
outlets do you recommend so I use
Flipboard and it's only an in-between
moment thing for me to be honest so the
vast majority of data that I intake is
books and I picked them very
specifically based on my goal so I think
everybody in this feed certainly knows
that I am on a mission to become one of
the world's foremost experts on the
microbiome I'm wrapping up my claims
here about what I made originally was
just helpless and now I want to be a
foremost expert but I really am excited
to learn about that so that's a big deal
so I'm reading as much as I can on that
so I will not only choose books that
come highly recommended and right now
I'm just working my way through Naveen
Jane gave me a list and then I'm just
going to the list and so far they've
been exceptional books very helpful has
ended up having implications from a mom
as well who's had like thyroid problems
and so I never would have guessed that
those would be tied but nonetheless as
you read about the microbiome I promise
you're going to keep encountering things
about thyroid and then obviously mindset
I just read insatiably about mindset
about the brain seeing where that's all
going where the neuroscience is going
that's been very very meaningful to keep
my own thinking on the topics fresh and
then
if I'm reading about the microbiome I'll
then go into Flipboard so that when I
have a moment of downtime if I'm
standing in line or I'm waiting for
something then I'll pick up Flipboard
and it's basically like a magazine that
you curate so I've got things obviously
for the comic book industry for the film
industry anything to do with the
business of entertainment like all those
things are obviously very important for
what we're doing in the studio I've got
stuff in the microbiome and health I've
had for a very long time things to do
with nutrition and diet but I add things
and subtract things as we go and what's
important and what really feels like
it's matching my goals and that's really
it's books and Flipboard and podcasts I
do a lot of podcasts but obviously on
consider that reading yeah between those
three things which are highly curated
based on the things I'm trying to learn
from my goals and I just go deep deep
deep on given topics and I try to read
in swarms so when I'm on the microbiome
tip it's like all microbiome all the
time I'm trying to get from all angles
so I'm getting varied views and opinions
I'll follow people on my Instagram feed
I'll follow them on Twitter on Facebook
like so that no matter where I go is
encountering it yeah exactly
yeah definitely um in terms of news
intake for me I feel like I used to read
the daily skim it was like this email
digest that comes to you and just kind
of like gives you short fun summaries of
what's going on in the world and then
morning brew for like business news it's
also like one of those email newsletter
things but I realized that I feel like I
just encounter it through like Twitter
and like social and really following
various outlets yeah so those are some
of the ones we recommend all right so
this next question comes from Corinne
Davis
hi guys love you as you know she came to
the Culver City impact eyewear that was
super awesome great to see you again
so she says okay so you get subscribers
in the world of social and then what how
do you generate revenue from that well
let me tell you how we're the wrong
people to ask that question to you
notice we don't monetize anything that
we're doing so I would highly suggest
you go watch what Lois houses doing
grant cardone is doing Tai Lopez like
those guys know how to monetize their
following but I will say at a high level
I understand the concept and it goes
something like this you've got
advertising so if you have a podcast or
something like that you reach out to
advertisers or brands excuse me and say
hey I want you to advertise in my
podcast obviously make sure it's
something that will bring value to your
users because that's how you're going to
bring value to the advertiser and you
want them coming back so but you reach
out to them you set a price usually it's
based on the number of followers that
you have I am not the right person to
ask sort of what the going rate is so I
would get out there and I'm sure you can
find up Agent Smith vid roll big roll
we're going to get there very wrong mid
roll liberal I've tried every like
confident other than the right one mid
roll all right so maybe Agent Smith
should do like a tutorial on this at
some point nice so according to agent
Smith mid roll will estimate what you
can charge for your following so there
you have it I'm guessing they look at
engagement numbers and things like that
so yeah I'll stop there just because
this is way outside of my lane I don't
know anything about this really other
than sort of at a really high level the
only thing you can obviously sell in the
long term is value so finding a way to
add value to your advertisers to your
community the only way it is sustainable
and then courses courses is a big thing
yes of course is our huge all right so
this next question came in through the
connect inbox from Nick he says I love
training weight training a lot of and a
lot of training for sports squats and
deadlifts sled dragging cetera I love
training in jiu-jitsu I have two
daughters and I learn everyday to pass
it on to them really but I've always
been a person that really likes to focus
on a few things and really kick butt at
it the weight training is easier to fit
around my schedule the jujitsu is a lot
more challenging and I train the
grappling
really to teach my girls as they get
older but not being able to go but one
to two times per week slows down the
momentum for grappling I played college
baseball and was really an
all-or-nothing person I don't like
dabbling and stuff again I like to go
all-in on stuff and have always done
better when I only juggle a few things
how would you go about this house
solving this situation Manit that's a
pure personality thing so if you really
don't like dabbling and you really want
to create momentum in something then
imagine yourself in the room of the
thousand doors and your job is to shut
999 of them right so the the solution is
in the question itself if you're not
having fun and your only concern is
being able to pass it on to your
daughters then just wearing your value
system does that fall if you care more
about that then you care about the
weight lifting or something else going
on in your life make it a priority and
stick to it alternately if that's not
the case then don't and I will just say
that I don't think people should be I
don't think people should live for their
children obviously you should make your
children feel loved at all times but
like my dad's obsession was cars I hated
cars we we've come out okay so hey you
know I don't think that at the end of
the day I don't think that that people
need to say whatever my kids need is
like number-one priority and I'm still
doing do and do for them I think that
people really need to take care of
themselves first even parents so don't
lose yourself to your daughters if being
in jujitsu is something that's really
important and that they actually enjoy
then send them to jiu-jitsu themselves
and you don't necessarily have to be
doing it yourself and conversely again
if that's your highest value then
structure your day in such a way that
you can do it but there is a finite
amount of time that we all have like you
I share that notion of I don't want to
be a dilettante like I don't want to go
from thing to thing to thing I really
want to pick a few things and go hard on
them and when I think about just all the
topics I want to read about it is
endlessly torturous to me that I can't
read about everything that I want that I
can't become an expert everything that I
want so what I go
I pride around is being able to identify
what serves my goals and then pursuing
that period and here's something I'm
thinking more and more and more about
and people write in to me about this all
the time and I'm just telling you right
now you just decide so you just decide
that the thing that's most important is
jiu-jitsu for the girls right you just
might side and there's going to be a
hundred times in that process where you
like this isn't right this isn't right
this isn't right and you just got to
keep soldiering on and tell the point at
which you realize you know what it's so
not right that now I'm going to switch
it back to I'm going to lift and that's
more important cool changing is not a
problem like you decided that's not it
boom now I'm going to go over here but
in fact I just somebody highlighted this
I think it was in Ryan holidays new book
which is full disclosure I've not read
but when I saw this highlight I thought
it was really interesting in his new
book is called perennial seller very
proud of myself remembering that and
what it's about is how do you how do you
create something that will last like not
something that sort of that momentary
flash in the pan but that will be
selling 50 years a hundred years from
now and I think he's actually quoting
somebody else in the part that I saw
highlighted but regardless the thing
that destroys the most people that could
potentially create a perennial seller is
they try to do multiple things that have
nothing to do with each other and I
cannot tell you literally every day and
this is a confession to the team almost
every day I think is the the studio like
is that the answer because what I care
about is pulling people out of the
matrix right so is the studio the answer
is the studio the answer and it's like I
have to keep coming back to there are
other things that I want to try as well
and then I just remember dude focus is
the answer staying on a path is the
answer and regardless of what you choose
pick one go hard
yeah and going back to what you said you
could just as easily have your
daughter's pink jujitsu or like
Taekwondo or karate or whatever kind of
so they can build those skills and see
if they
like it and then just figure out what
you want to do yep
yeah all right so if the speed is adding
value to you guys please make sure that
you share it we're always looking to
grow it's a big part of our ethos here
is building the community and then we
also have a couple community events
coming up nice was here but yeah so
we've got impact our in downtown LA
August 16th
so next week and then we have you and
Lisa in London for a meet-and-greet at
bar Soho both those events are on your
page and then also in Eventbrite where
Co RSVP and Tom's coming to impact our
abode I made it happen
I made their happen there we go oh yeah
you guys there so definitely come hang
out with us
it's gonna be fun really like this then
you lose all right so this next question
comes from Gabrielle and angel de Lilly
D Lilly how do you make time to read all
the books you consume and still get
business done so I have a very strict
schedule that I keep - so first of all I
go to bed at 9:00 p.m. I wake up when I
wake up sometimes as early as 2:00 a.m.
so I'll give you a fantasy day the days
that I love and I cherish more than you
can imagine and then I'll give you a day
where I feel rushed so this is what a
day looks like when I'm all the time in
the world so I think it was early this
week I woke up at 2:00 a.m. I had five
hours of sleep so I was like yes I hit
my minimum I get to get out of bed it's
going to be amazing I went to the gym I
spent about an hour in the gym which
takes us to like probably 320 by the
time you factor like moving around here
the Manucci 's and all that and then
meditate for probably about 20 minutes
so what's that take us to like 3:40
something like that and then I think at
8:00 that takes us to about 4 a.m. and
then at 4 a.m. and it's on I guess
garbage reading so then I literally read
for at least an hour I might push it
read for an hour and a half
because my day started so early and if
it's really clicking I might it's rare
that I read for much more than hour and
a half if I'm honest but I might let
myself occasionally read nope that
doesn't feel right it isn't in there
that I read for more now nap so let's
say I read for about an hour and a half
and then I start going if I woke up that
early then I'll start doing things
exploratory like I'll see what's going
on in the world of comics who's doing
something that's exciting what's going
on in entertainment news what's
happening that we might be able to
leverage what on my important things
list sounds like fun
because I consider anything sort of
before 6:00 a.m. for sure to be a little
bit like and like yeah goal oriented but
still my time only till 8:00 at after
8:00 it's contracts it's all that stuff
but until from like 6:00 to 8:00 if
there's something fun that I can do
that's on my important things it has to
be on my important things list but if
it's on my important things with and it
seems like fun even if it might be like
item 4 or 5 I'll still let myself do
until 8 come 8:00 it's like whatever's
at the top of the list and then I get
into it so that's a day where I've had
an hour and a half to read without
feeling like I'm at all impacting the
business and a negative way now keeping
in mind that reading is important ideas
in equal ideas out so it's I certainly
don't feel guilty about it but on a day
where I wake up let's say I slept
terribly I woke up in the middle of the
night I'm tossing and turning so to get
my minimum five hours sleep may take me
to like five or six a.m. so then if I
wake up at five I'm still headed to the
gym if I wake up at six I'm going to
start truncating my workout so but if I
wake up at five we'll do a full workout
if I wake up at six it's shortened and
then I would go still through I'd
probably skip meditating if I'm honest
if I wake up in six no way I'm not going
to meditate I'm not going to meditate or
think at eight I'll get a little bit of
think attaining done in the shower I'll
read but I may only read for 20 minutes
because by 8:00 a.m. no matter what I'm
at the top of my important things list
so that's how we do it
aren't there days when I don't get a
read at all I sure if something really
weird is going on yeah but for the most
part I'm going to always be able to
sneak in at least 20 minutes of
that's sort of a bare minimum and then
yeah I mean the rest of my day I almost
almost all of my reading is done in the
morning but let's say that I've had a
week where I haven't gotten a lot of
reading in like a lot of days I'm waking
up late or I've got early morning stuff
or whatever is messing that schedule up
then I will really binge read on the
weekend and try to make up for it but
reading it's important to me to note
reading for me is one of the most
enjoyable and exciting things that I do
so that's not like while I bucket it as
work because it's not fiction it's all
nonfiction that's all stuff that's
moving me towards my goals that falls
into the like if you love what you do
you never worked in your life nothing so
I love to read so when you love
something you're going to find time for
it that makes sense
but I think going to bed is actually the
secret answer to all of this go to bed
early go to bed what's funny is that I
saw that Instagram story of you like in
the gym at like 2:30 in the morning and
that that night I had like fallen asleep
I think around like 1:00 or 1:30 and so
it was just like it's so weird yeah yeah
yeah I love those days it's so funny how
much you couldn't have convinced me when
I was in my 20s that I would ever love
that but I yeah I love that I'm saying
maybe I'm still there I don't know yeah
yeah I mean look this stuff changes over
time and may and because I'm not waking
like I used to sleep more by the way I
have a suspicion that the de Meaux Deus
festival or device is making me sleep
more because they gave me the new one on
went away right and so I'm using it it's
way more powerful than the first version
that they gave me also bizarre how
rapidly I've adjusted to it so the first
time I put it on I was like whoa this
goes way beyond a glass of red wine into
like I should not operate heavy
machinery and I remembered I actually
have the video yes but now it feels like
it felt before it's very subtle
so it's interesting how you adjust but
because this whole thing is supposedly
that it's making your your brain think
that it's very
reactive in order to reset the setpoint
I think Michael yeah you're right oh so
tired yeah that's my it doesn't make me
tired during the day but it makes me
sleep right like very soundly yeah which
that that's off-label so I don't know
that that's true could be total totally
psychological coincidence whatever but
the last two nights I've slept more than
I normally do which actually for me is
not ideal so I'm honest for six hours
six hours six hours at six hours I feel
like a million bucks
a million bucks absolutely no fatigue
and I have all the time in the world to
get things done when I start sleeping
like seven hours oh you hit like
diminishing returns for yourself for you
yeah yeah because I want the time if I
could sleep zero and be cognitively
optimized I would for sure without
question so yeah that's well strangely
make that angry you're right I'm angry
that you're right but you're right okay
well so this next question comes in from
the comments from our Keith Perkins Tom
I'm a new follower and I've grown to
love your lectures because they are so
powerful and compelling did you always
know that you'd become a major
enthusiast or was it a specific
life-changing experience that marked
your destiny what is a major enthusiast
I will I don't know
so like maybe like a speaker did I
always know that I'm telling a powerful
speaker I've had a viewers this would be
a thing for me for more than a decade
but I wouldn't forget always knew that
so I from the time I was 12 I thought it
would be a filmmaker and I knew that my
so I've been focusing on learning to
communicate since I was in the seventh
grade like actively focusing on it it
was my thing when my sister was good at
sports I got into drama speech debate
like all that stuff so that became my
arena and then stand-up comedy and all
that so that became my arena so yes I've
known that it's a tool that I've been
focusing on for a very long time and it
is good to use the tools you've
developed otherwise why are you
developing them but no it didn't become
clear that this
an intelligible path to anything until I
started inside quest and that was when I
realized okay the the world has shifted
so fundamentally social media has
changed things to a degree I could not
have predicted as a kid that it became
something that was in line with my goals
you know me I'm only going to do the
things that serve my goals and I
probably was about two years late to the
party if I'm honest but that was when it
sort of hit me that wait a second this
actually is in alignment with my goals
and so then I started doing it but yeah
that's the truth I've been building the
skill set without realizing how it would
manifest as me on stage and that that
would somehow be valuable to my skills
so I didn't do it until it fell in
lineman and that also goes back to the
whole point of skill acquisition is you
never really know when you'll need it
but if you're interested in it you
should learn it you know that's
interesting so you're going to hear
merrily give a mix of two things so yes
you should encounter a lot of things
when you're young like you know there
are skills that I had never thought I
would use and I feel like I'm using them
here yeah you you do you have to hit a
whole broad spectrum you have to find
out what you really enjoy firstly there
it is drops of money it is okay so this
next question comes from on Cal C go on
love the show all fantastic values that
impact theory team are putting out smile
I have the question is regarding advice
flash mindset to choose how do you know
which advice or mindset that you should
follow and which ones you should avoid
in other words sometimes I hear some
gurus advise this way this way while
some others advise the other way how can
I know which one I should follow
so I guess conflicting viewpoints who to
follow I'm going to listen to yeah whoo
so at the end of the day you should be
doing whatever is moving you towards
your goals the question is how do you
begin to identify that early so I would
say a baseline is if somebody is talking
about anything other than being
empathetic
compassionate self-empowering doing
things that make you feel alive like
finding a way to really express your
true potential make the world a better
place like anything that deviates from
that like every alarm bell i have goes
off because those are going to be the
things that make you feel in alignment
with what i think is just the innate
human condition right there's just
certain we are a tribe animal we want to
contribute to the group we want to feel
good about ourselves we need self esteem
we need to I believe push ourselves to
really see how much we can make of our
own potential and I believe the very
meaning of life is to find out how many
skills you can acquire that have utility
right and and put that utility to the
test and service of something larger
than yourself so hiding in that to me
are like the fundamentals of the human
condition we are the ultimate adaptation
machine so to fail to really exercise
that potential to me is just a waste of
human life so like but all of those
things are my attempt to get at the
things that are actually going to help
you feel fulfilled the things that are
actually going to help you be proud of
yourself and live a life that is neuro
chemically rewarding so that you'll
actually enjoy this journey in this
process and all of that so that I mean
I've never thought about this before but
that's my answer like the things that
make you feel most alive feel good or
helping others like beyond that like
then it's flavors right so I'll throw
out some people that I think are doing
amazing stuff and we don't agree on
everything and I don't think you can go
wrong so Gary Vee I think is the
man Tony Robbins is the man Lewis Howes
the man like there are a bunch of people
out there Jim quick the man like they're
a bunch of people out there talking
about amazing
it's crazy empowering like are all of us
different flavors yes do I think that
you could go wrong with any of those
people and a hundred and fifty other
people no I think the flavor becomes
irrelevant which one do you respond to
are there people out there that I think
are doing like dicey yes so can I
spire the human-animal yeah
so the next question comes from Dan
Morell what do you think is the most
important factor when motivating a team
I want to so I want so badly for my team
to win but I struggle in motivating them
to want to win for themselves ah god
what an awesome question this is so big
and you want to talk about labels like
this is man there's there is a right
answer I was going to say there's no
right answer
there's no right flavor but there are
right answers ok so it goes something
like this first and foremost your
culture matters now why do I say that
because there are so many different
cultures and people will take the flavor
of that culture so I've given my fruit
salad example before so the fruit salad
example goes like this I get very angry
at fruit salads because I love
watermelon I love grapes I love
strawberries I hate melon
I hate cantaloupe I hate pineapple now
when you put them all together hate with
the frosting you're like a plane so
again no right or wrong right is no I
don't want that stuff mixed now when
people come into your group they're
going to take the flavor of that group I
promise you so make sure that you're
very careful about what you build into
your culture so that when people take on
that flavor that is empowering that is
positive and quite frankly a lesson I've
learned the hard way that there's one
culture and not multiple cultures where
it becomes schizophrenic so like a fruit
salad so you want to make sure that your
culture then you hire four people that
are going to fit that doesn't mean that
the people that don't fit that culture
of bad people to just a different flavor
so be very careful bring people into the
culture that are going to make it a
better place to work like the one
cardinal sin I will say if you come into
impact Theory like the moment you're
going to find that we just have to go
our separate ways is the day you're now
making this a worse place to be ok
doesn't mean you're not brilliant at
your job
it just means you are making this a
worse place to be that's not OK so that
will forever be the guiding light that
we have here so it isn't that
you're amazing it isn't that you bring
the company more money you may be both
of those things you may be the highest
revenue-generating employee that we have
you may be the most talented at your
position but if you aren't making this a
better place to be can have you so now
the real thing the u.s. is you can't
seem to motivate people to want it for
themselves I'll quote Naveen Jane here
don't worry about leading a horse to
water and getting them to drink make
them thirsty so you can't want it for
other people it's a very frustrating
thing I'm sure there are many people in
your life that you care deeply about you
may even love and they just don't seem
to want anything for themselves you
can't do that I wouldn't waste your time
with that think of yourself as a
filtering mechanism your job and
bringing people into the culture of your
company is to find people that resonate
with that that have excitability that
get what you're about they get your
methods like for instance if you don't
want to be pushed to your absolute
limits impact Theory is not the place
for you because that to me is absolutely
central to Who I am and what I want I
want to be pushed I want to be around
people that are pushing me to be a
better version of myself so if I'm in
here and I'm always having to drive the
energy I'm always having to push people
then nobody's pushing me and that's not
interesting to me so I want to make sure
that I'm surrounded by people that want
something as badly as I want it that are
willing to push themselves as hard as
I'm willing to push myself don't look at
me like I'm a crazy man when I
start pushing them so it all comes down
to what do you want to create and have
you found the right people that are
going to resonate within that and my
guess is if you're not able to get
people enthusiastic either your culture
isn't as coherent as you think it is
your message actually isn't motivating
which is possible or you've hired the
wrong people
any one of those could be true maybe all
maybe a mix yeah I can change it any
time
yeah and that's I mean this beauty of
culture it's very fluid and it does um
you know it is contingent on the people
that are within it no question yeah
alright so this next question comes from
Alex miles what's your favorite scene
from the matrix
very easy actually this interesting like
rain of fire brains no way it wasn't my
favorite moment and it gets me every
time is when he sort of resurrects
himself at the end he's been shot you
need anything what spoiler alert hers
he's been shot down on the ground and
yes but still and they shoot more
bullets at him and he just raises
henesys know like really calmly that is
always what I loved about it and the
bullets just stop and he picks one out
of the air and then the agents realize
were I love that and then I love
the scene with the Oracle and what I
love is when she goes don't worry about
the vase and he goes what vase and
because of that he bumps it it falls on
the floor and shatters and he's like I'm
so sorry and she goes don't worry about
it but what's really gonna bake your
noodle later is when you wonder if you
would have knocked it off if I hadn't
said anything and that's when I was like
I have the chills now that's when I was
like the witch a sneeze
man like yeah what's up like they
thought through this so far because
that's exactly what I thought when he
knocked it over well would he have
knocked it over though if you hadn't
said anything so when the Oracle
actually says that that what is the
Oracle and everything oh my god Jim so
you're right that was an awesome
question so thank you guys hanging out
of time sort of actually I'll just tell
you the truth we lost Internet and now
wrapping up now hey sadly much to our
dismay but thank you guys so much for
joining us and if this has brought you
value please do share that's how we
build a community which is so important
to us will help us achieve our goals
which are legion so guys thank you so
much for being a part of the community
and for engaging and make sure that you
check out some of our community events
and if you're in the Toronto Berlin
Chicago Seattle or London areas we now
have impact of this clubs that you guys
can be a part of love it guys thank you
so much for joining us this is a weekly
show so if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe and until next time my
friends good legendary take care
you